README.md, before:

# PDF RAG Assistant
A full-stack application that allows authenticated users to upload PDF documents and query their content using a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) pipeline.

This project focuses on clean system design, asynchronous processing, and secure integration between frontend, backend, and AI workflows.

## Features
- User authentication using Clerk
- Secure PDF upload
- Asynchronous document ingestion using queues
- Text extraction and chunking
- Foundation for RAG-based querying
- Modular, production-style architecture

## Tech Stack
### Frontend
- Next.js
- TypeScript
- Clerk Authentication

### Backend
- Node.js
- Express
- Multer
- Background worker

### Infrastructure
- Valkey (Redis-compatible queue)
- Docker

### AI / RAG
- LangChain
- PDF parsing and text splitting

## Architecture Overview
```scss
Next.js (UI)
   ↓
Express API (Auth, Upload, Queue)
   ↓
Valkey Queue
   ↓
Worker (PDF parsing, chunking, embeddings)
```
Authentication is handled at the API boundary, while document ingestion and processing are performed asynchronously by background workers.

## Local Setup
### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18+)
- Docker

### Environment Variables
Create environment files using the provided .env.example templates in the respective client and server directories.

## Running the Application
From the project root, run:
```bash
npm run dev
```

This will:
- Start required Docker services
- Start the backend API
- Start the background worker
- Start the frontend application

## Project Status
- Authentication & uploads: ✅
- PDF ingestion pipeline: ✅
- RAG query endpoint: 🚧 In progress
- UI for querying documents: 🚧 In progress

## Notes
- Background processing is decoupled from the API using a queue-based architecture
- Authentication is handled using Clerk modals on the frontend
- The project is designed to demonstrate real-world, scalable application patterns

Commit message:

feat: complete PDF ingestion pipeline with embeddings and vector storage

README.md, after:

# PDF RAG Assistant
A full-stack application that allows authenticated users to upload PDF documents and query their content using a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) pipeline.

This project focuses on clean system design, asynchronous processing, and secure integration between frontend, backend, and AI workflows.

The document ingestion pipeline is fully implemented and operational; query and UI layers are under active development.

## Features
- User authentication using Clerk
- Secure PDF upload
- Asynchronous document ingestion using queues
- Text extraction and chunking
- Foundation for RAG-based querying
- Modular, production-style architecture

## Tech Stack
### Frontend
- Next.js
- TypeScript
- Clerk Authentication

### Backend
- Node.js
- Express
- Multer
- Background worker

### Infrastructure
- Valkey (Redis-compatible queue)
- Docker

### AI / RAG
- LangChain
- PDF parsing and recursive text chunking
- Hugging Face Inference embeddings
- Vector storage using Pinecone

## Architecture Overview
```scss
Next.js (UI)
   ↓
Express API (Auth, Upload, Queue)
   ↓
Valkey Queue
   ↓
Worker (PDF parsing, chunking, embedding generation, vector storage)
```
Authentication is handled at the API boundary, while document ingestion and processing are performed asynchronously by background workers.

## Local Setup
### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18+)
- Docker

### Environment Variables
Create environment files using the provided .env.example templates in the respective client and server directories.

## Running the Application
From the project root, run:
```bash
npm run dev
```

This will:
- Start required Docker services
- Start the backend API
- Start the background worker
- Start the frontend application

## Project Status
- Authentication & uploads: ✅
- PDF ingestion pipeline (queue + worker + embeddings): ✅
- Vector storage (Pinecone): ✅
- RAG query endpoint: 🚧 In progress
- UI for querying documents: 🚧 In progress

## Notes
- Background processing is decoupled from the API using a queue-based architecture
- Authentication is handled using Clerk modals on the frontend
- The project is designed to demonstrate real-world, scalable application patterns
- Document embeddings are generated asynchronously and stored in a vector database
